<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

# archive.ar

`local ar = require("@std/archive/ar")`

---

## `export type` ArchiveFormat

See [ArchiveFormat in @std/archive/ar/_types](/docs/reference/std/archive/ar/_types.md#export-type-archiveformat)

---

## `export type` ar

<h4>

```luau
export type ar = {
```

</h4>

Read, write, and extract the Unix `ar` format used for static libraries and as the outer container for `.deb` packages.

ar is a single flat layer of entries with no directory structure, so an `Archive` written to ar can't contain subfolders.

---

### ar.extract

<h4>

```luau
function ar.extract(path: string, destination: string, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> (),
```

</h4>

Directly extract the ar archive at `path` into directory at `destination`, creating
a new directory if needed.

This overwrites files in `destination` if those files existed already, but should not
cause directory issues like overwriting a directory because `ar is a flat archive format that
doesn't allow directories.

---

### ar.readfile

<h4>

```luau
function ar.readfile(path: string, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> Archive,
```

</h4>

Reads the ar archive at `path` into memory as an `Archive`, with the same erroring semantics as `fs.readfile`.

This may throw an error if one file or the total archive size exceeds the archive lib defaults, pass an
`ArchiveOptions` to adjust these settings.

---

### ar.writefile

<h4>

```luau
function ar.writefile(path: string, archive: Archive, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> (),
```

</h4>

Write an `Archive` to `path` as an ar archive, following the same erroring semantics as `fs.writefile`.

The archive must be completely flat (no directories) because directories aren't supported by
the ar format.

---

### ar.load

<h4>

```luau
function ar.load(bytes: buffer, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> Archive,
```

</h4>

Load an ar archive into memory as an `Archive` from an existing buffer of bytes.

This may throw an error if one file or the total archive size exceeds the archive lib defaults, pass an
`ArchiveOptions` to adjust these settings.

---

### ar.create

<h4>

```luau
function ar.create() -> Archive,
```

</h4>

Create a new empty `Archive`.

---

```luau
} -- closes ar
```

---

Autogenerated from [std/archive/ar.luau](/.seal/typedefs/std/archive/ar.luau).

*seal* is best experienced with inline, in-editor documentation. Please see the linked typedefs file if this documentation is confusing, too verbose, or inaccurate.
