<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

# archive.sevenz

`local sevenz = require("@std/archive/sevenz")`

---

## `export type` ArchiveFormat

See [ArchiveFormat in @std/archive/sevenz/_types](/docs/reference/std/archive/sevenz/_types.md#export-type-archiveformat)

---

## `export type` sevenz

<h4>

```luau
export type sevenz = {
```

</h4>

Read, write, and extract the 7z format.

7z (LZMA2) usually beats zip and tar.xz on compression ratio, at the cost of being slower
to compress and less universally supported than zip.

Uses LZMA2 preset 6, the same default as tar.xz. If you need a different preset, open an issue, make a PR, or contact me.

---

### sevenz.extract

<h4>

```luau
function sevenz.extract(path: string, destination: string, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> (),
```

</h4>

<details>

<summary> See the docs </summary

Extract the 7z archive at `path` into the directory at `destination`, creating a new
directory if needed. This function has the same erroring semantics as `fs.writefile`.

This protects against path traversal attacks (unexpectedly writing outside destination directory),
symlink traversal attacks, and caps archive and individual file sizes to prevent zip bombs.

If you hit an error extracting a directory to a destination folder you're re-using, just remove that
destination folder first with `fs.removetree`.

To increase size limits, allow unsafe path traversals or allow symlinks, see `ArchiveOptions`.

</details>

---

### sevenz.readfile

<h4>

```luau
function sevenz.readfile(path: string, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> Archive,
```

</h4>

Read the 7z archive at `path` into memory as an `Archive` with the same erroring semantics as `fs.readfile`.

To increase size limits, allow unsafe path traversals or allow symlinks, see `ArchiveOptions`.

---

### sevenz.writefile

<h4>

```luau
function sevenz.writefile(path: string, archive: Archive, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> (),
```

</h4>

Write an `Archive` to `path` as a 7z archive with the same erorring semantics as `fs.writefile`.

To increase size limits, allow unsafe path traversals or allow symlinks, see `ArchiveOptions`.

---

### sevenz.load

<h4>

```luau
function sevenz.load(bytes: buffer, options: ArchiveOptions?) -> Archive,
```

</h4>

Load a 7z archive into memory as an `Archive` from an existing buffer of bytes.

---

### sevenz.create

<h4>

```luau
function sevenz.create() -> Archive,
```

</h4>

Create a new empty `Archive`.

---

```luau
} -- closes sevenz
```

---

Autogenerated from [std/archive/sevenz.luau](/.seal/typedefs/std/archive/sevenz.luau).

*seal* is best experienced with inline, in-editor documentation. Please see the linked typedefs file if this documentation is confusing, too verbose, or inaccurate.
